---
layout: post
title:  "keras.backend has no attribute get_session"
date:   2020-08-02 13:52:17 +0200
---
One of the most annoying things about migrating code to Tensorflow 2 is that some functions are not backwards compatible. One example which pops up frequently for me when mixing Tensorflow 1 and Tensorflow 2 code is the session attribute of Keras. 

Originally you needed to do a lot of things in TensorFlow in a specific session. Luckily the developers realized that this was a bit of a hassle, and abstracted the session away to the background. However, you still sometimes want to use it. 

When Keras came along the session was very much abstracted away. For advanced stuff you could still retrieve it using the get_session function, which was hidden in the backend of Keras. In the newer TensorFlow Keras is the go-to API for defining neural networks, but the session should not explicitly be used anymore. 

Hence you get the following error when you try to access it: `AttributeError: module 'tensorflow.keras.backend' has no attribute 'get_session'`. 

Let's take a look


```python
import tensorflow as tf
from tensorflow.keras import backend as K

print("Working with version", tf.__version__)
session = K.get_session()
```

    Working with version 2.2.0



    ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    AttributeError                            Traceback (most recent call last)

    <ipython-input-10-c1e72b5690be> in <module>
          3 
          4 print("Working with version", tf.__version__)
    ----> 5 session = K.get_session()
    

    AttributeError: module 'tensorflow.keras.backend' has no attribute 'get_session'


Luckily TensorFlow 2 is currently still compatible with TensorFlow 1 in many ways if you know where to look. Use the tf.compat.v1 api to get the session back: 



```python
session = tf.compat.v1.keras.backend.get_session()
```

Hopefully this allows you to stretch your code a little bit longer. However, it's definitely better to try to upgrade to TensorFlow 2.0 and just remove the access to the session. 
